Hello guys !

The summer is going to be end and I’m happy to meet Fall in soon or later and I keep studying CS as before ! Today I’ll deal with const and final. Well, most of reader know this part but I want to make it clear because it’s important part.

Unlike Sentence ending(;) or make comment(/* */), this field various depends on the language. But as Flutter scholar I gonna more focusing on Flutter

Const
-----

as ‘Constant’ abbreviation it called as const. The value is set **when compiling it.** And it happen when I click to run current repository on emulator It choose const value so that even if i hot reload on already opened app the const values are not change

### Memory saving

The compiler creates it **once at compile-time** and places it in memory. This single object is called a **canonical instance**. Every place in your app where we use that exact constant, we are just **getting a pointer** to that one original object.

Final
-----

As literally it set on final, because Const set compile-time but F**inal set later than this**, technically happen in “run time” which is Hybrid compiling language change there **raw human level language change to byte code** (Compiling) and **run on virtual machine is Run-time.**

### Memory saving

**A new object must be created in memory each time** the code is executed. It’s means **memory allocated** every time the code runs. For example It’s like taking a photo with phone. Even if we take a picture of the same thing twice, we get two separate photo files on your phone, each taking up its own space.

How much this two make memory difference ?
------------------------------------------

**With** `**final**` **(or without any keyword):** This code creates 10,000 separate `Divider` objects in memory.

```
ListView.builder(
  itemCount: 10000,
  itemBuilder: (context, index) {
    // A new Divider object is created for every item.
    return Divider(color: Colors.black);
  },
);
```

**With** `**const**`**:** This code creates only **one** `Divider` object, and all 10,000 items in the list share a reference to it.

```
ListView.builder(
  itemCount: 10000,
  itemBuilder: (context, index) {
    // All 10,000 items reuse the exact same Divider object.
    return const Divider(color: Colors.black);
  },
);
```

In this scenario, the memory savings are substantial. We’ve allocating 9,999 extra objects, which also reduces the work for the garbage collector, making your app run smoother, especially on lower-end devices.

Wrap up the Writing ..
----------------------

Today I deal with Const and Final, which used a lot in Flutter coding for the first time I here this logic, honestly I was not sure but this time I could make sure final and const and whenever I type this expression 😁